The next thing we're gonna
add to our little TypeScript
library is an API surface report and
documentation.
So we're gonna install some new
tools in order to make this work.
I'm gonna kill my yarn watch.
I'm gonna make a quick git commit.
Just seeing what was changed here.
This just looks like the yarn watch stuff.
Really important that
we start this next part
of the course with
a clean git staging area.
Cleat, it's not what Linux knows about.
All right, so
time to add a couple new dependencies,
yarn add -d for dev dependency,
microsoft/api-extractor.
Microsoft/api-documenter.
That is all.
So as before, new tool, new config file,
new way to create a starting point
with a little CLI command so we don't
have to write a bunch of stuff by hand.
And this one is yarn api-extractor --init.
No, sorry, no dash dash.
Okay, this route was ran successfully.
api-extractor.com, that's where you
can look if you wanna learn more about
this tool.
The purpose we are using this tool for
is a couple of things.
It's gonna generate an API surface
report so that if we make pull requests
against this library, that might change
the public API surface, it'll be
super obvious to us and we'll know
exactly how the public API is changing.
Sometimes this can be a little bit subtle,
when you have deep modules
within a library and
maybe the return type of some function is
ultimately exposed through
the library's publicly usable surface.
It's a great change
detection mechanism there.
And we're also going to use it to
create declaration file roll ups.
So I mentioned that we're gonna have this
idea of the publicly visible types, like
people who just conventionally consume
this library, they'll use these types.
We'll have a type for beta testers.
We'll have some types for alpha testers.
And then we might have a set of types
that's just for it's exposing all
the internal stuff too, maybe we use
that for our Jest testing purposes.
If we really wanted to write tests
against some internal things,
there's another declaration file that lets
us reveal all the internal stuff as well.
But you wouldn't see those, you'd have
to do something explicit to consume
anything other than sort of the public
types, that's what everyone gets normally.
All right, so let's look at this file
that was created, api-extractor.json.
It's pretty huge, and we're gonna make
a couple very small changes here.
So where's this outline?
So this little outline thing is nice when
you're browsing a big JSON document,
it's part of VS Code now.
We're going to focus on
this dtsRollup section.
You could also scroll down here and look
for a top-level key, dtsRollup, right?
But if you're somewhere else and
you click this,
it'll take you right to it,
which is kinda nice.
Okay, so we've got something here called.
Well, first we wanna say that add
a comma here after enabled true,
cuz we're gonna uncomment
some stuff below.
And next we're gonna go to
this untrimmedFilePath.
The untrimmed file,
like the declaration file roll up,
will contain all the private and
internal stuff.
So we're gonna add a little
word after that, -private.
This tool in this unscoped package name,
it's just gonna put chat-stdlib.
It's gonna get that from package json,
it's the name of your package,
we'll go there.
So there's your untrimmedFilePath.
We're gonna keep scrolling down.
We've got an alphaTrimmedFilePath.
If we look at that, hey, an alpha's
already there, that's totally acceptable.
A betaTrimmedFilePath,
we'll uncomment this as well,
there's a -beta, that's something
someone would have to opt into.
And then publicTrimmedFilePath.
And I'm gonna delete the public here so
that it's just the name of the package,
chat-stdlib.d.ts.
There's one more thing
we gotta enable here.
And I believe it's all the way
up at the top, yes it is.
It's gonna be mainEntryPointFilePath,
it's right below the Schema.
So go up to the top of the file,
it'll be the first uncommented
thing that you see here.
The input for
API extractor is the declaration file,
the entry point declaration file for
your library.
So this is in our dist folder.
If your library had more than one file,
these roll up files would contain
all of the types for your library.
You look in there and
there would be module declarations.
It's still one file, but it would
represent all of the different modules
that you're publishing with your library,
that's what makes it a rollup.
We won't see that here because
we're dealing with one file.
Okay, that should be everything we
need to do in this config file, so
we can go ahead and close this and
not worry about it again.
Let's make a new directory called etc.
And then we're gonna
run yarn api-extractor,
run --local.
The next thing you're gonna run is
yarn api-extractor run --local.
We're gonna press Enter.
And here's what it spits out.
So first, because we're using
a very modern version of
the TypeScript compiler right now,
it's telling us about this.
Everything's gonna be okay, we're not
using any TypeScript 5.3 features in this
library, so it'll be fine.
And this is kept up-to-date,
it just lags a little bit behind,
but it will be ready in a couple of weeks,
I would assume.
And it says the api report file was
missing, so a new file was created,
please add this file to git.
And it looks like in our etc folder,
it created a markdown file.
Let's look at what's in that file.
So here's our etc folder.
Here's this, and
I'm gonna view this markdown file.
And look at that, here's our api
report and rendered markdown.
And you can see that we've got a public
and then we've got a beta here.
We're told not to edit this file directly,
but
it sort of describes the API
surface of our library.
It's not really documentation,
there are code comments around deferred
and the stringify error function.
It's not there,
this is just the API surface.
So what we'll wanna do here,
what do I need to do?
I'm not gonna worry about that.
I have marked down linting in
another part of this project, but
we should be fine here.
So I'm gonna close this,
I'm gonna close this, and it's important.
We have to make one more change and
then we're gonna, well,
two more changes, and
then we're gonna save.
So we're gonna create a temp folder.
And we wanna git ignore this.
It seems, I already have
something in this temp folder.
I don't wanna check this into git,
this is just sort of working state.
This is files that API
extractor leaves around for
other things that are built on top of it.
So let's go into gitignore, and
down at the bottom we can say,
Something like that.
And then one more thing before we commit,
and
that is going back to our package json,
we wanna be very deliberate
about what types we expose to
consumers of this library.
And if we look right now,
we've got this dist/index.js.
And so what's implied by
this is in our dist folder,
this index.d.ts kind of describes
the types associated with index.js,
and that's what's gonna end
up being consumed, right?
But we can change our mind there,
we can make it more explicit.
And we're gonna say it's
dist/chat-stdlib.d.ts.
And why don't we go ahead and look at the
differences between our index declaration
file and all of these things
that came out of api-extractor?
These are our roll ups,
this is part of what came out.
So this was the line I added.
So our index declaration file,
the important thing to note here is this.
This stringifyError function
is exported from our library,
but we indicated that it is for
beta users only.
This should not be included
in the stable API surface of
our library, but it is here.
If we go to this thing that
we're calling our public types,
there's no function at the bottom.
Hey, and there's even a note telling
us something could have been here,
but it was stripped away.
Because it's not part of what should
be exposed for this release type,
like a stable public release,
including no beta functionality.
And we'll go and look at beta.
We'll sort of go in reverse
order of maturity here.
Well, beta, it does include a function
declaration for this function.
Alpha, well,
it's also gonna include the beta thing.
But if there were things marked alpha,
they would first appear here,
they wouldn't be in the beta file.
And then finally, in the private file,
we should see stringifyError.
We don't see a private thing here.
Okay, there's one more thing.
You don't have to make this change,
but I'll just show you how it works.
If we did this and ran our api-extractor.
>> Do you have to rebuild the index DTS,
since that's the-
>> I will, I will.
Yeah, I do have to rebuild,
thanks for catching that.
I think it'll work now.
There it is.
So that's private, and let's switch it
back to internal and see what happens.
Build.
And it's gone.
Part of why it's gone,
or the reason it's gone,
is in our tsconfig we had
an option here called,
It's up here, stripInternal.
Disable admitting declarations that have
the internal tag in their js.comments.
So that would be something where
you truly, you want it dropped.
You don't want any declarations
there in any of the rollups.
But you have three different
pre-GA release types you
can deal with there,
you have private, alpha, beta.
So you can imagine.
And we when we import
this into our chat app,
we're gonna need to use a beta function.
And I'll show you how you
can explicitly refer to that
DTS rollup and
say I wanna use that one as my types.
And this is I think okay,
because if you have someone
who's opting into that,
that's a deliberate step.
And in doing so, they're consuming
something that says beta, and
they have to write the word beta.
And they couldn't come back and
say, hey, you've changed this.
So we got a question in the class about
what happens if you don't see all
of these different DTS rollup files?
And what happens if the wrong
things are in there,
if you're not seeing what I'm seeing?
The thing that I would check is, first,
if you're seeing anything at all in there,
you probably have this main entry point
defined properly, that's the input for
API extractor.
And then you wanna go and
look at untrimmedFilePath.
And this is when we're talking about
untrimmed, aside from stripInternal,
untrimmed means the private
stuff is left in there.
In fact, if you didn't have
stripInternal turned on,
the internal stuff would be in
there as well, truly untrimmed.
>> Sorry, could you scroll over there?
Yeah, mine did not specify the -private.
>> I added that when
we were going through.
>> That's what I missed, thank you.
>> Their defaults are a little different
compared to what I would prefer.
They have this as the default here.
And I like, if a user's gonna
consume my private types,
I would like them to write the word
private, so I tend to do this.
And they added the word,
if we go down to the public one,
publicTrimmedFilepath, they
add the word public here.
And I want the default to be public.
If you're just using
library name DTS like that,
you're not writing the word private,
you're not writing the word public,
those are the types,
that's the library, that's the default.
That's my own convention, you can
pick whatever convention you'd like.
Some people even like to put this
DTS file in a different folder,
like a temporary folder, and then
they'll just build these rollup things.
So they'll basically get rid of
this file as part of their build,
which is a valid thing to do, right?
Nobody needs that file anymore, and it's
just one more thing someone could point
to, and then there's this beta thing here.
But that would simply be a matter of
making your out there a little different.
Or having a rim raf star dot disk slash
startup DTS, something like that,
to strip those away, and you would only
do that after the rollups are complete.